People who are sun worshipers
and especially those with fair skin
and blonde or red hair
are at higher risk for developing the most
serious type of skin cancer,
known as melanoma.
Melanomas develop because of damage
to the DNA of cells called melanocytes.
The damage results in cells that no longer
grow or die in a structured way.
Melanocytes produce the skin pigment
melanin that gives our skin color.
A melanoma forms in these cells
below the surface of the skin.
The rapidly growing cells work
upwards to the skin surface
and appear on the surface as a dark mole,
usually with a botchy irregular border.
ou can reduce your risk of melanoma
by avoiding excessive exposure to
ultraviolet or UV radiation
from the sun or tanning beds,
using a broad-spectrum sunscreen
and wearing protective clothing when in the sun.
It’s also a good idea to have a regular skin exam
and report any changes to your doctor.